Feat/add r6 rc roadmap blog (#851)
SovereignCloudStack/website: _i18n/en/_posts/blog/2024-02-01-road-ro-r6.md

---
layout: post

> title: "Our road to SCS release 6"

Reviewer: I would prefer a title that is more precise that this is about the release candidates.
"Our road to SCS release 6" is misleading and could also refer to the whole development cycle.

Author: Is *SCS R6 release candidate planning* a better title?

Reviewer: Or mabye more of a call to action - since that is why we're publishing this - so that everybody can chime and help :)

"SCS R6 release candicates - when and how to test"

Reviewer: Perfect! :)

different to users and applications, resulting in extra effort to get accustomed
to each platform and sometimes significant effort to automate workloads, especially
if these want to achieve high availability. The SCS project aims to provide a high
degree of portability between SCS-compatible platforms by defining standards.
These are built on top of existing upstream standards and define further aspects
of platform behavior that application developers need.

The SCS software release does obviously implement all the SCS Standards by default;
however the standards can also be fulfilled by independent implementations. The release
cycle of standards is not tightly coupled with the software release. This would
only be needed if a new implementation is required to meet new standards. While
this can happen, it is an exception.

The SCS project is currently finalizing a new set of standard scopes: The version 4
of our SCS-compatible standards on the IaaS layer and the first version of SCS standards 
on the Container (Kubernetes) layer. We encourage software developers, DevOps Teams
and Providers alike to look at our

> [current state](https://github,com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/), provide

Reviewer 2: I prefer <https://docs.scs.community/standards/>. What do you think?

Author: @mbuechse: I think that docs/standards is the much better place for people to look at our current state of standardization, yes. The reason why I pointed to github is that I asked for feedback and contribution to the upcoming versions. Am I making sense?

Author: I linked both now -- the docs place for the current standards and the github place for contributing to upcoming stuff.

Reviewer 2: I like the new version very much!

Reviewer 3: Maybe reference both: 
> We encourage software developers, DevOps Teams and Providers alike to look at the
[current standards](https://docs.scs.community/standards/), provide feedback in the [standards repo](https://github.com/SovereignCloudStack/standards/pulls) and contribute to the [standardization process](https://docs.scs.community/standards/scs-0001-v1-sovereign-cloud-standards).

formal release candidate cadence and a more formalized test results collection
than we used to, reflecting the increasing size of our provider ecosystem as well
as the increasing size of our larger partners' environments.

We have come up with the following schedule for release candidates:

| R6 RC |    ETA     | notes      |
|-------|------------|------------|
| RC0   | 2024-02-07 | aka 7.0.0a |
| RC1   | 2024-02-21 |            |
| RC2   | 2024-03-06 |            |
| RC3   | 2024-03-13 | may not be needed and be skipped |
| RCx   | 2024-03-1y | if needed in order to retest |
| final | 2024-03-20 | aka 7.0.0  |

Note that with the first release candidate (RC0), the large features have
all been completed, been integrated and must be working. (We may still
work on improving documentation, test coverage and of course bug fixing.)
We may grant a small number of exceptions to this rule for a small number
of so-called late features to come late (typically with RC1) and we will
make these transparent to our testers to avoid wasting effort.

## Late features (high level view)

The focus for RC0 is to test the upgrade on the IaaS layer, where we have

> a new OpenStack version (Bobcat, aka 2023.2) integrated. We have some

Reviewer 4: It's "OpenStack version 2023.2, aka Bobcat"

work pending in the IAM area and on the container layer where we have the
exciting new technology with Cluster Stacks. Both can be tested already,
but will receive a few more changes until RC1. One of the more risky features
for R6 is to cover all cases where Kubernetes Clusters are migrated from
the old cluster-API based K8s-as-a-Service solution (KaaS v1) to the new
cluster stacks. Expect improvements here until later release candidates and
read the release notes to understand which scenarios are covered and which
ones may not be covered by full automation yet when we finalize R6.

## Matrix

The developmemt teams are very focused to respond quickly to issues reported
against our release candidates. We'd like to ask testers to open issues in
github against the relevant repositories as usual. To facilitate quick and
more interactive communication, we also invite testers and developers to

> join the [SCS | Testing Matrix room](LINK TO BE DONE) to stay atop of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
join the [SCS | Testing Matrix room](https://matrix.to/#/#scs-r6-releng:matrix.org) to stay atop of
```
